# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* Graphics: The game is rudimentary graphically and the looks should be improved if I want to make the game more appealing for potential players.
* Impossible levels: The game still has impossible level screens in it. I would need to get rid of these for my game to be truly complete, and to make the game more appealing and more fun.
* Complexity: Currently, the questions consist of a number, an operation and another number. I would like to make more complex questions for my game, perhaps divison questions and questions with more than two numbers and one operation.

## Maintenance

Maintenance strategies for a game can vary a lot, and they depend on whether the developer of the game wants to keep it the same size, or expand the game to include more content.

My plans for the mathematical platformer would be to expand the game and add more content to it in order to increase the game's complexity and appeal factor for players. To do so, I would try to keep as much of the original code as possible, whilst building on this code to add new ideas and possibilities to the game. Some things would be able to be done quickly, whereas others would need to have long-term plans in order to implement them.

### New features

I would like to add various new features in my game, for example: more complex questions, more operators (e.g. divison, raising to the power, etc.), and more obstacles and enemies. These would all be long-term commitments, as I would need to add much more code in order to add everything I have listed here.

### Bug-fixing

For short-term maintenance, I need to fix the annoying, persistent problem of impossible levels, where it is impossilbe to hit the correct answer on a particular level screen. I could solve this in different ways: I have mentioned these in the '[Short Term Bug Fixes](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md#short-term-bug-fixes)' section below.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

* Impossible levels: As impossible levels should not exist in a complete game, I should continue to try and get rid of these, with new coding. The code could be either to stop answers spawning too close to each other, and/or to separate hitboxes when answers spawn close to each other.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* Graphics: Improve the graphics, maybe by adding new and different backgrounds and better-quality sprites. Better graphics in the game will make the game more appealing, and will give the game a more complete feel, as mentioned with other similar things.
* Complexity: Make it so that more numbers and operations are spawned on the level screen, and that the resulting answer is calculated in the right order (maybe using order of operations). More complexity means more content, which means more to do in the game, which again makes it more appealing to players who might want to spend more time on a particular game.
