# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Game Mechanics

### Movement

The movement mechanics in the mathematical platformer will be simple. I will use a 'linear acceleration' system for the character, where it accelerates at a linear pace to a set top speed. For deceleration, it will decelerate at a linear pace until stopping. The character will not be allowed to go through walls, so hitting a wall will stop the character from proceeding in the direction of the wall. A linear acceleration system is more realistic as no-one instantly stops in real life and might be more fun to use than a single-speed system as it adds a bit more of a challenge to the platforming aspect of this game.

### Controls

The controls will be very simple for this game. The only controls necessary are the arrow keys and/or WASD to move the character. The up arrow and/or W would make the character jump, the left arrow and/or A would accelerate the character in the left-hand direction, and the right arrow and/or D would accelerate the character in the right-hand direction. I cannot think of a use for the down arrow and/or S.

## Graphics and UI

### Graphics

The graphics in the mathematical platformer will be kept simple, as I want to try and concentrate on gameplay. However, I want to try and add some colour to the game, so it is not quite so monotone and boring. I have the idea that the background colour could vary with each level, but I would need to make sure it does not clash with the colour of the character or enemies. I could solve this by adding an outline to the sprites to distinguish them from the background. The platforms will have a texture on them so they are also easily distinguishable - I have not decided what the texture will be yet.

### User Interface

The user interface in my game will be simple and easy to understand. For the title and difficulty selection screens, there will just be buttons to (respectively) enter the difficulty selection screen and choose a difficulty. Likewise in the levels, there does not need to be a fancy graphics interface - aside from the colours mentioned in the 'Graphics' section, there only needs to be a score counter and other text snippets for the questions and answers. As mentioned before, I want to concentrate on gameplay more, so the graphics and UI might be pushed back and might not look as nice as some other games out there.

### Level design

The levels will be simple in their design. There will be platforms that allow the character to access answers, and there will be enemies spawned on various platforms that move around randomly, which the player must avoid. I will probably not make different level designs but, in terms of obstacles and enemies, I will try to randomise these to an extent. The textures and colours have been mentioned previously, but these will be simple enough as to not confuse young players who might be playing this game.

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
