# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is the process of removing unnecessary detail from something to focus on the core details. This can be used in problem-solving, where you remove anything that is not necessary, leaving you with the core details to concentrate on, allowing you to solve the problem more easily. Here are some abstracted key features of my game.

* The designs will be basic. I will make the design look nice, but not complicated as to keep the game simple. There will be a range of colours as to keep the game varied. Likewise, the graphics will be basic.
* The level will be basic enough too. It will have a basic layout which is easy to understand, but there can be some randomness to the layout for variation.
* The user interface will tell the player everything they need to know and no more. There will be text for the score, and for the question and answers. Outside of the gameplay, there just needs to be buttons with text and nothing else.
* The enemies will kill the player if they touch one of them, and they will move around on the platforms. Any enemies and other obstacles will spawn randomly, but not within a certain distance of the player's starting position.

This is abstract information - the parts of the game have been broken down into small chunks as to help me solve the problem of how to make the game more easily.

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead in program building requires you to take the initial abstract model and develop on it. You can work out the first things you will need to do in your project by thinking ahead. By doing this, you can solve problems such as:

* What are the inputs and outputs?
* What preconditions are there for the solution?
* How will I make the program more efficient?

Thinking ahead is vital in programming as if you do not think ahead, you will run into problems later on in development, which will most likely have been caused by malpreparation and not covering the first bits well enough.

For example, the player inputs for my game will be the player pressing the arrow keys or WASD so the player's character moves (which is the output). Some preconditions are that the player cannot clip through a wall, so movement will not be allowed if it would cause the player to do so, and that there will not be movement when the game is not on the level screen, as the character (and any other AI, for that matter) would not be on the screen.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

## Thinking Logically

## Thinking Concurrently
